1. Project Overview
This project aimed to deploy and configure GLPI (Gestionnaire Libre de Parc Informatique), an open-source IT Asset Management
and Service Desk solution, on a free-tier AWS EC2 instance.
A second client VM was provisioned to interact with GLPI for testing ticket creation, asset management, and monitoring features. 
The entire process, including setup, configuration, and testing, was documented and stored in a GitHub repository.

2. AWS Environment Setup

2.1 Provisioning AWS Instances

Created two AWS EC2 instances using Ubuntu 22.04.
Configured Security Groups to allow HTTP, HTTPS, and SSH access.
Assigned an Elastic IP to the GLPI server instance.
Installed necessary system dependencies (Apache, PHP, MariaDB) on the GLPI server.

3. GLPI Installation & Configuration

3.1 Installing GLPI on the Server VM

Check out installation.sh script for an explained installation of Glpi on the Server VM.

4. Client VM Configuration & Testing

4.1 Accessing GLPI from the Client VM

Installed a web browser (firefox) and accessed GLPI using:
firefox http://glpi-server-IP/glpi
Logged in using default credentials (glpi/glpi).

4.2 Creating a Test Ticket & Adding an Asset

Created a new support ticket:

Title: "Internet Connectivity Issue in Office"

Description: "Workstation is unable to connect to the Internet."

Category: Network Issue

Assigned to: Glpi Admin

Added an inventory asset Client VM under Assets → Computers.

5. GLPI Monitoring System Configuration

5.1 Enabling the GLPI Inventory Plugin

Activated the GLPI Inventory Plugin under Setup → Plugins.

6. GitHub Repository & Documentation

6.1 Repository Setup

Created a dedicated GitHub repository.
Added essential project files: Installation Script and Screenshots
Committed and pushed the files to GitHub.

7. Challenges Faced & Solutions

Challenge: Connecting AWS instance

Solution: First go to the glpi keypair dir
cd Downloads
dir *.pem
then put the SSH client cmd
ssh -i "glpi-keypair.pem" ubuntu@.us-east-2.compute.amazonaws.com

Challenge:GLPI web interface not accessible

Solution:Restarted Apache and checked firewall settings and used public IPv4 address instead of the private
https://glpi-server-IP/glpi

Challenge:Client VM unable to reach GLPI

Solution:Adjusted AWS Security Groups to allow traffic

8. Key Learnings & Improvements

8.1 Lessons Learned

Proper AWS resource planning is essential to stay within free-tier limits.
Security best practices (e.g., disabling default credentials, enabling SSL) are crucial.
Monitoring plugins enhance IT asset visibility and tracking.

8.2 Potential Improvements

Working on Email Notifications to improve tracking and monitoring.

9. Conclusion

This project is successfully deployed GLPI on AWS, configured IT asset management, enabled monitoring, and documented all steps 
for reproducibility.
